https://vimeo.com/188807971

Have you carried hot coffee or soup to school? How did you keep the hot liquids hot? You probably used what is called vacuum mug. When you pour hot chocolate into a ceramic mug, you can feel the heat of the hot liquid through the mug, but when you use vacuum mug you cannot feel the heat. That is reason why sometimes our mouth, tongue and throat burns occur because we underestimate the temperature of hot drinks inside of the vacuum mug and we cannot feel it from surface. Especially it seems much difficult for blind or visually impaired to use, because they cannot feel the heat and see water vapor. Therefore, I made this Hot Water Detector (H.W.D) to help blind people to drink hot stuff safely.

Easy to Use - There's no software or mobile application needed. Easy to Carry – The detector is small and light in weight Target Audience – H.W.D enables visually impaired people and hearing loss people to use, they can know the water temperature based on LED light and buzzer.

Our body temperature normally sits at 37 ℃ C (98.6 F). Based on my research, the cool setting will be underneath 36.5℃ (97.7 F), and the warm setting will be in the 36.5℃ to 45℃(113 F) degree range. And, it's not safe to drink if water beyond 45 ℃. So my detector basically use LED and buzzer to indicate the temperature of water, the Green LED and the speed of sound is slow and soft means that now it’s perfect timing to drink. The Red LED and slight sharp sound are shown that water is too hot to drink.

At the beginning I think the hardest thing for my project is that how to store my water temperature sensor and arduino, battery all kinds of stuff inside of the cup. It turns out that there is no way I can make that happen, so I deicide to make a separate detector to test water. And also I did some changes after user testing. I realized that users do not want to continually hear the sound from buzzer, so I was thinking to add a button to control the LED and sound. However, it doesn't work because I find out that the waterproof temperature sensor slows down the code running. Once I push the button, it’s going to be a long time to let it turn on the sound and LED. Therefore, I make it no sound during the normal room temperature and start to beep once the temperature beyond the normal body temperature to alert you the change of water temperature.

